doc/man/zathura.1.rst, before:

Manpage
=======

Synopsis
--------

zathura [-e XID] [-c PATH] [-d PATH] [-p PATH] [-w PASSWORD] [-P NUMBER]
[--fork] [-l LEVEL] [-s] [-x CMD] [--synctex-forward INPUT] [--synctex-pid PID]
[-find STRING]
<files>

Description
-----------

**zathura** displays the given files. If a single hyphen-minus (-) is given as
file name, the content will be read from the standard input. If no files are
given, an empty **zathura** instance launches.

Options
-------

-e, --reparent=xid
  Reparents to window specified by xid

-c, --config-dir=path
  Path to the config directory

-d, --data-dir=path
  Path to the data directory

-p, --plugins-dir=path
  Path to the directory containing plugins

-w, --password=password
  The documents password. If multiple documents are opened at once, the
  password will be used for the first one and zathura will ask for the
  passwords of the remaining files if needed.

-P, --page=number
  Opens the document at the given page number. Pages are numbered starting
  with 1, and negative numbers indicate page numbers starting from the end
  of the document, -1 being the last page.

-f, --find=string
  Opens the document and searches for the given string.

-l, --log-level=level
  Set log level (debug, info, warning, error)

-x, --synctex-editor-command=command
  Set the synctex editor command. Overrides the synctex-editor-command setting.

--synctex-forward=input
  Jump to the given position. The switch expects the same format as specified
  for synctex's view -i. If no instance is running for the specified document,
  a new instance will be launched (only if --synctex-pid is not specified).

--synctex-pid=pid
  Instead of looking for an instance having the correct file opened, try only
  the instance with the given PID. Note that if the given PID does not have the
  correct file open or does not exist, no new instance will be spanned.

--mode=mode
  Start in a non-default mode

--fork
  Fork into background

--version
  Display version string and exit

--help
  Display help and exit

Mouse and key bindings
----------------------

General

  J, PgDn
    Go to the next page
  K, PgUp
    Go to the previous page
  h, k, j, l
    Scroll to the left, down, up or right direction
  Left, Down, Up, Right
    Scroll to the left, down, up or right direction
  ^t, ^d, ^u, ^y
    Scroll a half page left, down, up or right
  t, ^f, ^b, space, <S-space>, y
    Scroll a full page left, down, up or right
  gg, G, nG
    Goto to the first, the last or to the nth page
  P
    Snaps to the current page
  H, L
    Goto top or bottom of the current page
  ^o, ^i
    Move backward and forward through the jump list
  ^j, ^k
    Bisect forward and backward between the last two jump points
  ^c, Escape
    Abort
  a, s
    Adjust window in best-fit or width mode
  /, ?
    Search for text
  n, N
    Search for the next or previous result
  o, O
    Open document
  f
    Follow links
  F
    Display link target
  c
    Copy link target into the clipboard
  \:
    Enter command
  r
    Rotate by 90 degrees
  ^r
    Recolor (grayscale and invert colors)
  R
    Reload document
  Tab
    Show index and switch to **Index mode**
  d
    Toggle dual page view
  F5
    Switch to presentation mode
  F11
    Switch to fullscreen mode
  ^m
    Toggle inputbar
  ^n
    Toggle statusbar
  +, -, =
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  zI, zO, z0
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  n=
    Zoom to size n
  mX
    Set a quickmark to a letter or number X
  'X
    Goto quickmark saved at letter or number X
  q
    Quit


Fullscreen mode

  J, K
    Go to the next or previous page
  space, <S-space>, <BackSpace>
    Scroll a full page down or up
  gg, G, nG
    Goto to the first, the last or to the nth page
  ^c, Escape
    Abort
  F11
    Switch to normal mode
  +, -, =
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  zI, zO, z0
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  n=
    Zoom to size n
  q
    Quit

Presentation mode

  space, <S-space>, <BackSpace>
    Scroll a full page down or up
  ^c, Escape
    Abort
  F5
    Switch to normal mode
  q
    Quit

Index mode

  k, j
    Move to upper or lower entry
  l
    Expand entry
  L
    Expand all entries
  h
    Collapse entry
  H
    Collapse all entries
  space, Return
    Select and open entry


Mouse bindings

  Scroll
    Scroll up or down
  ^Scroll
    Zoom in or out
  Hold Button2
    Pan the document
  Button1
    Follow link


Commands
---------

bmark
  Save a bookmark

bdelete
  Delete a bookmark

blist
  List bookmarks

close
  Close document

exec
  Execute an external command

info
  Show document information

open
  Open a document

offset
  Set page offset

print
  Print document

write(!)
  Save document (and force overwriting)

export
  Export attachments

dump
  Write values, descriptions, etc. of all current settings to a file.

Configuration
-------------

The default appearance and behaviour of zathura can be overwritten by modifying
the *zathurarc* file (default path: ~/.config/zathura/zathurarc). For a detailed
description please consult zathurarc(5).

Synctex support
---------------

Both synctex forward and backwards synchronization are supported by zathura, To
enable synctex forward synchronization, please look at the *--synctex-forward*
and *--synctex-editor* options. zathura will also emit a signal via the D-Bus
interface. To support synctex backwards synchronization, zathura provides a
D-Bus interface that can be called by the editor. For convince zathura also
knows how to parse the output of the *synctex view* command. It is enough to
pass the arguments to *synctex view*'s *-i* option to zathura via
*--synctex-forward* and zathura will pass the information to the correct
instance.

For gvim forward and backwards synchronization support can be set up as follows:
First add the following to the vim configuration:

::

    function! Synctex()
      execute "silent !zathura --synctex-forward " . line('.') . ":" . col('.') . ":" . bufname('%') . " " . g:syncpdf
      redraw!
    endfunction
    map <C-enter> :call Synctex()<cr>

Then launch *zathura* with

::

    zathura -x "gvim --servername vim -c \"let g:syncpdf='$1'\" --remote +%{line} %{input}" $file

Some editors support zathura as viewer out of the box:

* LaTeXTools for SublimeText
  (https://latextools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/available-viewers/#zathura)
* LaTeX for Atom (https://atom.io/packages/latex)

Environment variables
---------------------

ZATHURA_PLUGINS_PATH
  Path to the directory containing plugins. This directory is only considered if
  no other directory was specified using --plugins-dir.

Known bugs
----------

If GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS is enabled you will experience problems with large
documents. In this case zathura might crash or pages cannot be rendered
properly. Disabling GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS fixes this issue. The same issue may
appear, if overlay-scrollbar is enabled in GTK_MODULES.

See Also
--------
`zathurarc(5)`

Commit message:

Add '$f' and '$p' expansions to 'exec' shortcut function
There are other expansions available, but I don't really think they make
sense, or why there are two of them for the same thing (`$FILE` and `%`
expand to the file name).

I added `$f` and `$p`, which expand to the document's path and current
page respectively, while keeping the other 2 just in case it breaks
someone's setup. I also documented them in both `zathura(1)` and
`zathurarc(5)`.

doc/man/zathura.1.rst, after:

Manpage
=======

Synopsis
--------

zathura [-e XID] [-c PATH] [-d PATH] [-p PATH] [-w PASSWORD] [-P NUMBER]
[--fork] [-l LEVEL] [-s] [-x CMD] [--synctex-forward INPUT] [--synctex-pid PID]
[-find STRING]
<files>

Description
-----------

**zathura** displays the given files. If a single hyphen-minus (-) is given as
file name, the content will be read from the standard input. If no files are
given, an empty **zathura** instance launches.

Options
-------

-e, --reparent=xid
  Reparents to window specified by xid

-c, --config-dir=path
  Path to the config directory

-d, --data-dir=path
  Path to the data directory

-p, --plugins-dir=path
  Path to the directory containing plugins

-w, --password=password
  The documents password. If multiple documents are opened at once, the
  password will be used for the first one and zathura will ask for the
  passwords of the remaining files if needed.

-P, --page=number
  Opens the document at the given page number. Pages are numbered starting
  with 1, and negative numbers indicate page numbers starting from the end
  of the document, -1 being the last page.

-f, --find=string
  Opens the document and searches for the given string.

-l, --log-level=level
  Set log level (debug, info, warning, error)

-x, --synctex-editor-command=command
  Set the synctex editor command. Overrides the synctex-editor-command setting.

--synctex-forward=input
  Jump to the given position. The switch expects the same format as specified
  for synctex's view -i. If no instance is running for the specified document,
  a new instance will be launched (only if --synctex-pid is not specified).

--synctex-pid=pid
  Instead of looking for an instance having the correct file opened, try only
  the instance with the given PID. Note that if the given PID does not have the
  correct file open or does not exist, no new instance will be spanned.

--mode=mode
  Start in a non-default mode

--fork
  Fork into background

--version
  Display version string and exit

--help
  Display help and exit

Mouse and key bindings
----------------------

General

  J, PgDn
    Go to the next page
  K, PgUp
    Go to the previous page
  h, k, j, l
    Scroll to the left, down, up or right direction
  Left, Down, Up, Right
    Scroll to the left, down, up or right direction
  ^t, ^d, ^u, ^y
    Scroll a half page left, down, up or right
  t, ^f, ^b, space, <S-space>, y
    Scroll a full page left, down, up or right
  gg, G, nG
    Goto to the first, the last or to the nth page
  P
    Snaps to the current page
  H, L
    Goto top or bottom of the current page
  ^o, ^i
    Move backward and forward through the jump list
  ^j, ^k
    Bisect forward and backward between the last two jump points
  ^c, Escape
    Abort
  a, s
    Adjust window in best-fit or width mode
  /, ?
    Search for text
  n, N
    Search for the next or previous result
  o, O
    Open document
  f
    Follow links
  F
    Display link target
  c
    Copy link target into the clipboard
  \:
    Enter command
  r
    Rotate by 90 degrees
  ^r
    Recolor (grayscale and invert colors)
  R
    Reload document
  Tab
    Show index and switch to **Index mode**
  d
    Toggle dual page view
  F5
    Switch to presentation mode
  F11
    Switch to fullscreen mode
  ^m
    Toggle inputbar
  ^n
    Toggle statusbar
  +, -, =
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  zI, zO, z0
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  n=
    Zoom to size n
  mX
    Set a quickmark to a letter or number X
  'X
    Goto quickmark saved at letter or number X
  q
    Quit


Fullscreen mode

  J, K
    Go to the next or previous page
  space, <S-space>, <BackSpace>
    Scroll a full page down or up
  gg, G, nG
    Goto to the first, the last or to the nth page
  ^c, Escape
    Abort
  F11
    Switch to normal mode
  +, -, =
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  zI, zO, z0
    Zoom in, out or to the original size
  n=
    Zoom to size n
  q
    Quit

Presentation mode

  space, <S-space>, <BackSpace>
    Scroll a full page down or up
  ^c, Escape
    Abort
  F5
    Switch to normal mode
  q
    Quit

Index mode

  k, j
    Move to upper or lower entry
  l
    Expand entry
  L
    Expand all entries
  h
    Collapse entry
  H
    Collapse all entries
  space, Return
    Select and open entry


Mouse bindings

  Scroll
    Scroll up or down
  ^Scroll
    Zoom in or out
  Hold Button2
    Pan the document
  Button1
    Follow link


Commands
---------

bmark
  Save a bookmark

bdelete
  Delete a bookmark

blist
  List bookmarks

close
  Close document

exec
  Execute an external command. ``$f`` expands to the current document path, and ``$p`` to the
  current page number

info
  Show document information

open
  Open a document

offset
  Set page offset

print
  Print document

write(!)
  Save document (and force overwriting)

export
  Export attachments

dump
  Write values, descriptions, etc. of all current settings to a file.

Configuration
-------------

The default appearance and behaviour of zathura can be overwritten by modifying
the *zathurarc* file (default path: ~/.config/zathura/zathurarc). For a detailed
description please consult zathurarc(5).

Synctex support
---------------

Both synctex forward and backwards synchronization are supported by zathura, To
enable synctex forward synchronization, please look at the *--synctex-forward*
and *--synctex-editor* options. zathura will also emit a signal via the D-Bus
interface. To support synctex backwards synchronization, zathura provides a
D-Bus interface that can be called by the editor. For convince zathura also
knows how to parse the output of the *synctex view* command. It is enough to
pass the arguments to *synctex view*'s *-i* option to zathura via
*--synctex-forward* and zathura will pass the information to the correct
instance.

For gvim forward and backwards synchronization support can be set up as follows:
First add the following to the vim configuration:

::

    function! Synctex()
      execute "silent !zathura --synctex-forward " . line('.') . ":" . col('.') . ":" . bufname('%') . " " . g:syncpdf
      redraw!
    endfunction
    map <C-enter> :call Synctex()<cr>

Then launch *zathura* with

::

    zathura -x "gvim --servername vim -c \"let g:syncpdf='$1'\" --remote +%{line} %{input}" $file

Some editors support zathura as viewer out of the box:

* LaTeXTools for SublimeText
  (https://latextools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/available-viewers/#zathura)
* LaTeX for Atom (https://atom.io/packages/latex)

Environment variables
---------------------

ZATHURA_PLUGINS_PATH
  Path to the directory containing plugins. This directory is only considered if
  no other directory was specified using --plugins-dir.

Known bugs
----------

If GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS is enabled you will experience problems with large
documents. In this case zathura might crash or pages cannot be rendered
properly. Disabling GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS fixes this issue. The same issue may
appear, if overlay-scrollbar is enabled in GTK_MODULES.

See Also
--------
`zathurarc(5)`
